# PaLMTool
A trajectory is a trace generated by a moving object within a certain spatial-temporal context and is generally represented by a series of chronologically ordered points[^1]. While trajectory data plays an important role in domains like traffic analysis, public transportation management and wildlife monitoring, accurate and complete data are usually hard to obtain due to various factors, such as weak GPS signal in certain area or low sampling rate. 

There are various ways to generate realistic trajectory data, with PaLMTo[^1] being an efficient novel approach proposed in 2024 that adopts simple probalistic language models. This project is built upon previous research work[^2] by Mario A. Nascimento and Hayat Sultan Mohammed, aiming to provide a self-contained offline tool that allows users to upload sample trajectory data and generate new realistic trajectories.

## Glossary
**Cell Size**: side length of a square cell within a grid overlay in a geographical region where trajectories are recorded. When modeling a trajectory as a sentence, we need a way to uniquely identify each loaction indicated by a coordinate pair, which in our case invovles assigning cell ids to any location within that cell. 

[^1]: Mohammed, Hayat & Nascimento, Mario & Barbosa, Denilson. (2024). Effective Trajectory Imputation using Simple Probabilistic Language Models. 51-60. 10.1109/MDM61037.2024.00027. 
[^2]: Mohammed, Hayat & Nascimento, Mario. (2024). Realistic Trajectory Generation using Simple Probabilistic Language Models. 21-24. 10.1145/3681770.3698572. 
